---
title: "About Biebrza Wetlands"
image: '/images/example.jpg'
type: page
---
The Biebrza Basin is a vast terrain depression with unique environmental
features, consisting of a peculiar valley landform with a unique fluvial system
and a complex of wetland ecosystems with rich flora and fauna. Nowadays, the
Basin has many functions, of which two special ones should be singled out -
natural, which ensures the preservation of biodiversity, and productive,
associated with the agricultural economy that continues until today. The
Biebrza National Park, established 30 years ago, protects more than 59,000
hectares of the Basin's best-preserved ecosystems, with internationally
recognized natural values.

Unfortunately, hydro-engineering works carried out since the 19th century, as
well as drainage and conversion to grassland, degraded much of the peatland.
Progressive environmental changes caused by human activity and overlapping
natural factors related to climate change are causing progressive degradation
of the Park's nature. Changes in water conditions and the disappearance of
low-intensity agriculture, which has shaped the Park's landscape and nature for
centuries, are leading to habitat degradation and vegetation succession,
manifested in the encroachment of trees and shrubs into the open peatland
ecosystems, which is intensifying the depreciation of natural values.

The primary factor determining the preservation or restoration of the natural
values of the Biebrza River valley is the provision of appropriate water
conditions. However, wetland restoration and ensuring the sustainability of
wetland habitats is a huge logistical challenge.
